pages/buffers.md, before:

---
title: Buffers
parent: 1497
template: page-tut.php
order: 13
---

# Buffers

Buffers in vim are the in-memory text of files. Your window is a viewport on a buffer. You can switch between open buffers, which works similar in concept to tabs in other editors. Vim does have a concept of tabs too, but they are slightly different, read more about tabs in the [Windows section](/working-with-vim/windows/).

I generally keep it pretty simple and just use buffers. They handle my multiple-files-open-at-the-same-time needs. You don't have to take just my word. Here is a post about [Buffers vs Tabs](https://joshldavis.com/2014/04/05/vim-tab-madness-buffers-vs-tabs/), and the author agrees just using buffers is easier.

Buffers tend to be the default mode for multiple files, so it is what I learned and use.

## Opening Multiple Files

You can specify opening multiple files on the command-line. For example, `vim *.md` or `vim file file fle` each file opens in its own buffer. 

From within vim, use `:ed FILE` to open additional files in new buffers.


## Main Buffer Commands

`:buffers` or `:ls`
: Show open buffers

`:b {bufname}`
: Use buffer name, supports partial and tab completion

`:bd`
: Close current buffer

`:bn`
: Switch to Next buffer

`:bp`
: Switch to Previous buffer in list

`:b#`
: Last buffer visited, actual # sign

`:b1`
: Switch to buffer #1

`:bm`
: Switch to next modified buffer


## Buffer Navigation

Use the above commands to navigate and switch between buffers. The `:b {bufname}` might be the most useful. Type `:b` and then start typing the filename, partials work if it is unique, or use tab completion.

### My Shortcuts

Buffer navigation is so critical for my workflow, I have a set of shortcuts I use to make t it easier. I map `<Leader>3` to jump back to last buffer, this makes it easy to bounce between two files.

I map `<Leader>n` to navigate to next buffer, I map `Q` to close current buffer, and map `<Leader>,` to open the buffer list to select a buffer.

Here is what the mappings look like in my `.vimrc`, see [configuration section](/working-with-vim/configuration) for more about mapping and leader.

```vim
" Buffer Navigation
nnoremap <Leader>3 :b#<CR>      " previous buffer
nnoremap <Leader>n :bn<CR>      " next buffer
nnoremap Q :bd!<CR>             " close buffer
nnoremap <Leader>, :Buffers<CR> " browse buffers
```

The `:Buffers` command above is slightly different and comes from the [fzf.vim plugin](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf.vim). This allows for a more forgiving fuzzy matching of buffer names. See my article [Unix is my IDE](https://mkaz.blog/code/unix-is-my-ide/) for more explanation on how I setup vim using fzf and ripgrep for advanced searching, which includes this quick way to switch buffers using fzf.

<figure><asciinema-player src="/a/casts/vim/buffers.cast" font-size="large" cols="65" rows="20"></asciinema-player><figcaption>Buffer navigations</figcaption></figure>


## Split Buffers

You can open buffers in a split window, using the follow. This opens a second window with the buffer loaded. If you want to close the split, and keep the buffer open, use `:close` or `ctrl-w c` and not `:bd`.  Using `:bd` will close the buffer, and if it is in the only buffer open in a split window, it will also close the window.

`:sb 1`
: Open buffer #1 in a split

`:sb {bufname}`
: Open buffer `bufname` in a split

`:sbn`
: Open next buffer in a split

`:sbp`
: Open previous buffer in a split

`:sba`
: Open all buffers in split windows

Commit message:

Add tip for multiple files

pages/buffers.md, after:

---
title: Buffers
parent: 1497
template: page-tut.php
order: 13
---

# Buffers

Buffers in vim are the in-memory text of files. Your window is a viewport on a buffer. You can switch between open buffers, which works similar in concept to tabs in other editors. Vim does have a concept of tabs too, but they are slightly different, read more about tabs in the [Windows section](/working-with-vim/windows/).

I generally keep it pretty simple and just use buffers. They handle my multiple-files-open-at-the-same-time needs. You don't have to take just my word. Here is a post about [Buffers vs Tabs](https://joshldavis.com/2014/04/05/vim-tab-madness-buffers-vs-tabs/), and the author agrees just using buffers is easier.

Buffers tend to be the default mode for multiple files, so it is what I learned and use.

## Opening Multiple Files

You can specify opening multiple files on the command-line. For example, `vim *.md` or `vim file file fle` each file opens in its own buffer. 

From within vim, use `:ed FILE` to open additional files in new buffers.

<span class="tip">💡</span>If you have a command-line program  which returns a list of files that you want to open in Vim, you can use `vim $(command)`. For example, working in a git repository, open the set of changed files using: 
```
vim $(git diff --name-only)
```


## Main Buffer Commands

`:buffers` or `:ls`
: Show open buffers

`:b {bufname}`
: Use buffer name, supports partial and tab completion

`:bd`
: Close current buffer

`:bn`
: Switch to Next buffer

`:bp`
: Switch to Previous buffer in list

`:b#`
: Last buffer visited, actual # sign

`:b1`
: Switch to buffer #1

`:bm`
: Switch to next modified buffer


## Buffer Navigation

Use the above commands to navigate and switch between buffers. The `:b {bufname}` might be the most useful. Type `:b` and then start typing the filename, partials work if it is unique, or use tab completion.

### My Shortcuts

Buffer navigation is so critical for my workflow, I have a set of shortcuts I use to make t it easier. I map `<Leader>3` to jump back to last buffer, this makes it easy to bounce between two files.

I map `<Leader>n` to navigate to next buffer, I map `Q` to close current buffer, and map `<Leader>,` to open the buffer list to select a buffer.

Here is what the mappings look like in my `.vimrc`, see [configuration section](/working-with-vim/configuration) for more about mapping and leader.

```vim
" Buffer Navigation
nnoremap <Leader>3 :b#<CR>      " previous buffer
nnoremap <Leader>n :bn<CR>      " next buffer
nnoremap Q :bd!<CR>             " close buffer
nnoremap <Leader>, :Buffers<CR> " browse buffers
```

The `:Buffers` command above is slightly different and comes from the [fzf.vim plugin](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf.vim). This allows for a more forgiving fuzzy matching of buffer names. See my article [Unix is my IDE](https://mkaz.blog/code/unix-is-my-ide/) for more explanation on how I setup vim using fzf and ripgrep for advanced searching, which includes this quick way to switch buffers using fzf.

<figure><asciinema-player src="/a/casts/vim/buffers.cast" font-size="large" cols="65" rows="20"></asciinema-player><figcaption>Buffer navigations</figcaption></figure>


## Split Buffers

You can open buffers in a split window, using the follow. This opens a second window with the buffer loaded. If you want to close the split, and keep the buffer open, use `:close` or `ctrl-w c` and not `:bd`.  Using `:bd` will close the buffer, and if it is in the only buffer open in a split window, it will also close the window.

`:sb 1`
: Open buffer #1 in a split

`:sb {bufname}`
: Open buffer `bufname` in a split

`:sbn`
: Open next buffer in a split

`:sbp`
: Open previous buffer in a split

`:sba`
: Open all buffers in split windows
