src/tao.md, before:

---
title: The Tao of Vim
date: 2019-03-02
---

# The Tao of Vim

The underlying principle of Vim is the action-motion pair, the language equivalent is a sentence with a verb-noun pair. You perform an action on a subject, for example delete a line.

You can create action-motion pairs basically in two ways.

First, in NORMAL mode, you specify the action first and then the motion. Like the delete to beginning of the line example above. You type `d` for delete action and then `^` as the motion for beginning of the line.

If I just type `^` with no action, the cursor moves to the beginning of the line. Move is the default action.

The second way of defining a pair is VISUAL mode, except you do the opposite. You specify the noun (motion) part first by highlighting, and then perform the action on what is highlighted.

For example, type `gg` to move to the top of the file. `shift-v` to enter VISUAL LINE Mode and then `G` will move to end of file selecting all the lines. With the subject highlighted, you can use `d`or `y` to delete or copy.

I do this all the time to copy from one buffer to another. There might be a shortcut, but then I would need to remember it as a shortcut. Knowing how to highlight and move is less to remember, since it is the base of knowledge.

Note: You can perform this same action without using VISUAL mode by using `ggyG` but I tend to highlight. By selecting, I can see what is happening, what part highlighted and then get feedback when the action is performed.

Commit message:

Update with breaking into individual files

src/tao.md, after:

---
title: The Tao of Vim
date: 2019-03-02
---

# The Tao of Vim

The underlying principle of Vim is the action-motion pair. You perform an action on a subject, that is defined by the motion. For example, delete a line.

You can create action-motion pairs basically in two ways.

## NORMAL Mode

First, in NORMAL mode, you specify the action first and then the motion. Like the delete to beginning of the line example above. You type `d` for delete action and then `^` as the motion for beginning of the line.

If I just type `^` with no action, the cursor moves to the beginning of the line. Move is the default action.

## VISUAL Mode

The second way of defining a pair is VISUAL mode, except you do the opposite. You specify the noun (motion) part first by highlighting, and then perform the action on what is highlighted.

For example, type `gg` to move to the top of the file. `shift-v` to enter VISUAL LINE Mode and then `G` will move to end of file selecting all the lines. With the subject highlighted, you can use `d`or `y` to delete or copy.

I do this all the time to copy from one buffer to another. There might be a shortcut, but then I would need to remember it as a shortcut. Knowing how to highlight and move is less to remember, since it is the base of knowledge.

Note: You can perform this same action without using VISUAL mode by using `ggyG` but I tend to highlight. By selecting, I can see what is happening, what part highlighted and then get feedback when the action is performed.
